[David Pomeranz performing
"Nothing's Gonna Stop Me Now"]
♪ Sometimes the world
looks perfect ♪
♪ Nothin' to rearrange ♪
♪ Sometimes you
just get a feelin' ♪
♪ Like you need
some kinda change ♪
♪ No matter what
the odds are this time ♪
♪ Nothing's gonna
stand in my way ♪
♪ This flame in my heart
like a long lost friend ♪
♪ Gives every dark street
a light at the end ♪
♪ Standing tall ♪
♪ On the wings of my dream ♪
♪ Rise and fall ♪
♪ The rain and thunder
the wind and haze ♪
♪ I'm bound
for better days ♪
♪ Oh oh ♪
♪ It's my life
and my dreams ♪
♪ And nothing's
gonna stop me now ♪
[instrumental music]
Balki, will you come on?
If we don't leave
for work right now
all the really good
donuts will be gone.
Okay, cousin, I'm ready,
I'm ready.
[telephone ringing]
‐ Hello?
‐ Balki!
It's for you.
Well, tell them
I'll call them back later.
I think it's from Mypos, I hear
chickens in the background.
Nay?
Uh, dazo, yaya!
[speaking Myposian]
‐ Who is it, your mother?
‐ No, it's my yaya!
‐ Your yaya?
‐ My grandmother.
‐ Oh.
‐ Balki!
Uh, nay, yaya.
[speaking Myposian]
Okay.
Bye‐bye, babe.
Cousin, the most wonderful news.
My yaya is coming
to America.
Well, that's great!
Grandma Bartokomous
is coming to America.
Get out of the city.
She's coming too?
You just told me
she was coming.
No. Um... no.
My Yaya Bartokomous
is not coming to America.
This is Yaya Biki
from my mother's side.
Wait a minute,
Is this the Yaya Biki
who's a 106 years old?
No, this is the Yaya Biki
who has a lounge act in Vegas.
What I meant was,
I‐I can't believe someone
who's a 106 is gonna be
making a trip like this.
Isn't it too much
for her?
Well, maybe for your
average 106‐year‐old
but not for my yaya.
This woman, every morning
before the sun come up
she takes the goats
six miles uphill to graze them
then she come back
down the hill
and cook breakfast
for 26 men...
...then after the 26 men
go out to the fields
she does 45 minutes
of low‐impact aerobics.
So you see,
for someone over a hundred
she's very much
an 80's woman.
[chuckling]
[instrumental music]
[humming]
[sighing]
[mooing]
Balki?
What can I do you for?
Could we have a... chat?
[mooing]
Balki...
When you brought
a 100 pounds of garlic
into the apartment,
I said to myself,
"Okay... so Yaya Biki
loves scampi."
When you told me
she likes to keep fresh eels
in the bathtub,
I said to myself,
"Hey... no problem.
I take showers."
‐ But‐‐
‐ It's the cow, isn't it?
Well, yes.
The cow...
...bothers me.
I want Yaya Biki
to feel at home
I really do!
But have you ever thought that
she'd like to see how we live?
Experience the American way
of living?
Things like, oh... uh,
I don't know, uh, jeez
what example
can I think of?
Uh... oh!
Beef on the table
instead of beef at the table?
[mooing]
Sorry.
Please...
...can we get rid
of the cow?
Well, cousin, I'm just
trying to give Yaya Biki
a few of the little
comforts of home.
See? Look,
I made her this blanket.
I weave it myself
so that she won't get cold
while she's watching
"Letterman."
‐ It's beautiful.
‐ How about that chair?
That chair is just like the one
she has on Mypos.
Look, I don't mind
the chair.
I mind the cow.
Please... let's take it back?
We can take it back,
can't we?
Okay, we can 86 the cow.
She's just a rental.
Good, I'll go change clothes.
Ah, cousin,
before you go, um...
...you ought to know
that there may be a penalty
for returning her unmilked.
I'll chance it.
[instrumental music]
[all singing "She's A Jolly
Good Fellow" in Myposian]
♪ Ipepita irinki
halla hop chop yop yop ♪
♪ Ipepita irinki ♪
♪ Halla hop chop yop yop ♪
♪ Aynel ♪
♪ Och viddi voy poy ♪
♪ Dimina babbasticki ♪
Very good.
I think
"For She's A Jolly Good Fellow"
really works in Myposian.
Don't you?
Oh, real toe tapper
Okay, now, um...
...everybody please be at
the apartment at seven o'clock
so that when Cousin Larry
and I arrive with Yaya Biki
you can jump out
and yell "surprise!"
Wait, wait,
hold on, honey.
You sure it's such
a good idea to jump out
and yell at a woman
who's a 106?
No problem.
Yaya Biki is as strong
as a sea turtle.
Of course,
she has better legs.
Now, I got to run.
I got to pick up party hats
and half a pound of head cheese.
And listen, don't forget
to bring your dancing feet.
Yaya Biki loves
to party down.
A hundred and six
and as strong as a sea turtle.
I wonder what I'll be like
when I'm old.
Probably a lot like
Yaya Biki.
Why, Harriette, you think so?
Sure I do, honey.
You're already startin'
to look like a sea turtle.
[telephone ringing]
I'll get that.
[chuckling]
Hello?
No, Mr. Bartokomous
is gone for the day.
Well, uh, if it's important,
I can take a message.
I'm his cousin.
Oh, no.
Yeah. I‐I‐I understand.
Uh... thank you.
Goodbye.
Larry?
W‐what's wrong?
That was the airline.
Yaya Biki got off
to change planes in New York
and, uh...
...her heart stopped.
She's dead.
[instrumental music]
‐ Jennifer...
‐ Oh!
Are you sure we have
enough potato chips?
Balki, you already
bought 15 bags
and we only have
10 people coming.
You're right,
maybe we do need more.
Cousin! Cousin, look!
Look, look what we did!
Does this say
"Welcome to America"
or what?
[chuckling]
Well, yes, it does.
When Yaya Biki sees all this,
she's gonna die.
Uh, Jennifer and Mary Anne
don't you need
to hurry upstairs
and change for the party?
Larry, we have changed
for the party.
And lovely you are too.
Uh... I don't know
how to tell you this
but Lydia is wearing
that exact same dress.
‐ Uh, but if you don't mind...
‐ Oh, no, no, I'll change.
Uh, Mary Anne, did I mention
that Harriette is wearing
what you have on?
Wow, small world.
I better change.
Uh, cousin...
...is 15 bags
of potato chips enough?
We have ten guests coming,
I made four gallons
of sheep dip.
Balki... sit down.
Okay.
I guess I could
take a break.
I have been running around
like a chicken with
his head glued on all day.
Balki, the airline called.
Yaya Biki is...
...is going to be late.
How late?
A lot.
Cousin, what is it?
Yaya Biki...
...is not coming.
Something happened.
[gasping]
She bought the farm, didn't she?
Well, yes, she did.
Oh!
Oh, this is wonderful!
She's always
wanted that farm.
Of course,
she can't come now
she's got to go out
and buy sheep and goats and...
‐ No, no, Balki, Balki.
‐ ...I don't know what all.
Balki, "Bought the farm"
is an expression.
Well, of course it is,
don't be ridiculous.
What does it mean?
I know this is gonna come
as a terrible shock...
...but...
...Yaya Biki got off
the plane in New York...
...and died.
Okay, so we got
ten guests coming.
Fifteen bags
of potato chips enough?
Balki, did you understand
what I said?
Yes, you said
Yaya Biki is dead.
But that don't solve
the chip problem.
Oh, oh, where are you going?
I'm gonna go out
and buy some more potato chips.
If we run out of munchies,
this party's gonna be a dud.
[instrumental music]
[door closing]
Cousin...
...wasn't that
the best circus you ever see?
How about that Joko
The Human Fireball?
What an entertainer.
I just hope they got him
to the hospital okay.
‐ Balki‐‐
‐ Uh...
The‐the daring young man
on the flying trapeze...
What kind of a person
would climb 25 feet
up in the air
then just drop off
and then swing back
and forth
and back and forth
and then just
hand himself to somebody?
[squeaking]
Cousin, cousin, I have
a storm in my brain.
Why don't we
invite the girls down
and rent a movie
and get ourselves a pizza‐‐
Balki, Balki, Balki...
...why don't you give the girls
and me a night off?
For the past three weeks
you‐you've dragged us around
to every amusement park
zoo, movie and video arcade
in Chicago.
Well, excuse me
for being fun.
[blowing whistle]
[squeaking]
Okay, I know.
I'll make some popcorn
and we can practice catching it
in our mouths.
Balki, Balki
this is Cousin Larry.
You don't have to do this.
No, cousin, it's no bother.
I love making popcorn.
No, no, not that.
I mean, you don't have
to pretend
you're happy around me.
What are you talking about?
I'm happy.
You're not happy.
‐ I am happy.
‐ No, you're not.
‐ I'm happy!
‐ I'm happy.
‐ No, you're not.
I'm happy.
Now let it go.
Okay, fine.
You're happy.
Your yaya dies
and you're happy.
It makes perfect sense.
Okay, cousin,
I'm not happy.
Let me explain
something to you.
I've been prepared
for this.
On Yaya Biki's 100th birthday
she pulled me aside,
she said, "Balki...
...today, I am 100 years old.
Chances are I'm not going
to make another hundred.
So when I go,
please just go on
with your life
as if nothing happened.
Please, promise me this
so that I can rest in peace."
I promised her that
and that's all
there is to it.
Well...
Well, you're not going on
as if nothing has happened.
You're doing happy things
but I can see
you're hurting inside
and you're trying to hide it.
You can't hide it from me,
Balki.
I know you too well.
Cousin,
I'm trying to do
what I promised Yaya Biki
I would do.
Yaya Biki was very wise.
And I'm sure she wanted
to make things easier for you.
But if she could see you now
she'd say she made a mistake.
When someone close to you dies
you have to mourn for them.
No.
No, no.
[sighing]
I had an uncle
whose wife died
and he had a very
hard time getting over it.
He held things in...
...but the poor guy
was a wreck.
So he tried something.
[Balki sighing]
He wrote a letter
to his wife
telling her all the things
he wished
he could say to her.
And did this make
everything better?
Well... it made things
a little better.
But if you don't
wanna write to her
try talking to her.
It, it doesn't matter
what you do.
The important thing is
to get it out, to...
...to say goodbye.
I don't want
to say goodbye.
Well...
...I'm only trying to help.
I'm gonna go upstairs
and, uh, tell the girls
they don't have to
come down tonight
and watch you be happy.
[door closing]
What, what...
[sighing]
Well, yaya, here we are.
Oh, what the...
[sighing]
[instrumental music]
Yaya...
...here I am...
...in America...
...just where you
wanted me to be.
I...
I know it was your dream
to come here too.
I just wish you could've seen
more of this country.
I was thinking...
...maybe you saw
the Statue of Liberty
from the window
of your airplane.
Wasn't she beautiful?
I remember...
...the first time
I ever saw her.
I was, I was sailing
into New York Harbor
on the tramp steamer...
...and the sun
was coming up
and... there she was...
...just like you said...
...bringing light
to the world.
And... it was...
...the most wonderful
day of my life.
And... you...
...made that day possible.
I am so blessed
to have had somebody
to fill my heart
with such...
...wonderful dreams
and then to help me
to make them come true.
[sighing]
Yaya...
...you don't
make things easy.
I've been trying to do
what you told me to do.
To go on with my life
as if nothing has happened.
But... you don't understand
how hard it is...
...because you've
never lost you.
I made this for you.
[music continues]
I hope you like it.
Um...
Cousin Larry said that...
...I have to say goodbye.
And that...
And that,
I have to feel sad
before I can feel happy again.
And I think he was right.
I miss you.
[sighing]
Well...
...I'm gonna go
upstairs now and...
...tell my friends
that I'm sad.
I think that'll
make them happy.
Bye‐bye, yaya.
I see you again someday.
[music continues]
[theme music]